dr. Herman bobner Lititz a highly
respected veterinarian he believes music
can have a profound effect on cats so
much so that he composed this music
especially for them it's called coming
home and while it may conjure up visions
of New Age sparse and waiting rooms for
colonic irrigation there's a lot more to
it than that
what you may not be able to hear are
very subtle
rhythms that replicate a cat's heartbeat
when it's relaxed the doctor believes
that this in turn can make other cats
relaxed when hearing it
to test this theory we played his CD
music for cats and Friends volume 1 into
a room full of disparate cats prior to
the music being played the cats
displayed behavior that was aggressive
or agitated some hissed or struck out
while others took refuge in the corner
of the room one even hid herself in a
litter tray but once the music started
things began to change we thought that
the cats vendor music was on prefer to
be near the loudspeakers and so also
differences in social behavior like that
aggression decreased Kitely actions like
growing or licking each other or making
contact with the nose increased so
according to the doctors experiment
music can have a profound effect on cat
behavior but there is another reason why
Nora is tinkering on the keyboard so
much attend agree so now it's like hey
I'm the famous cat this is an
interesting and complex behavior a lot
of things are going on here I think
pretty clearly Nora started this
behavior to get attention
Betsy's got a student who's touching the
piano keys and Betsey's focusing all of
her attention on that person I'm sure
that Nora thought well if I touch the
piano keys Betsy will focus on me she
was a very smart cat she's quickly
figured out a way to get attention that
delights the people around her cats
learn by watching and that that's the
reason we have the word copycat in our
language I mean cats really do copy
behavior and associative learning and
that requires a little bit more smarts
the fact that she's she's learned this
imitative behavior very quickly on one
trial essentially is an indication to me
of how very smart she is
you